---
title: Candidate Summary
summary: Marcos Batista
---

I possess a unique skill in transforming complex ideas into clear, engaging narratives, fueled by my deep passion for learning and intellectual curiosity. My natural inclination towards deep research and information synthesis enables me to present insights in a manner that is both understandable and captivating. My problem-solving approach is a blend of methodical analysis and creative strategy, allowing me to identify issues and devise effective solutions. This analytical and innovative mindset is what I consistently bring to my work. My academic journey, marked by a double major in economics and mathematics, has profoundly deepened my understanding of economic theories, particularly their mathematical foundations. This has enhanced my ability to professionally apply these concepts. Recognizing the critical role of computer programming in modern careers, especially in economics, I have embarked on learning Python and aim to master other vital tools like R, SQL, and STATA for advanced statistical analysis.

I am eager to utilize my strong writing skills to create insightful reports and articles, translating complex data into practical strategies. My extensive knowledge in history, politics, and economics allows me to provide fresh interdisciplinary perspectives in economic analysis. I am also keen on further developing my programming and data analysis skills, with my mathematical background facilitating rapid learning of new concepts and skills essential for effective data interpretation and problem-solving. My goal is to become a leading economic consultant, applying my knowledge and skills to drive strategic decision-making and meaningful change. I am committed to continuously enhancing my capabilities in data analysis, programming, and economic theory, positioning myself as an invaluable contributor in the field of economic consultancy.
My values, centered around responsibility and self-development, significantly influence my career choices. These values guide me towards intellectually challenging opportunities that contribute to my personal and professional growth. As I progress in my career, these values will remain central, ensuring that my decisions align with my ambition to be a thoughtful, innovative, and responsible economic professional.

Currently, my career exploration is centered on roles as an Economic Research Intern and Economic Analyst. These positions align with my passion for delving into complex economic issues and my aspiration to excel in economic consulting. As an Economic Research Intern, I look forward to engaging in rigorous research and applying my analytical skills and economic knowledge. This role offers an invaluable opportunity to contribute to impactful economic studies and policy analyses, utilizing my proficiency in programming and data analysis. In the Economic Analyst role, I aim to expand my quantitative skills and apply them to synthesizing economic data into strategic insights. This position promises a blend of independent analysis and collaborative projects, ideal for intellectual and professional growth.

My goal is to influence economic policies and strategies through my work. I am committed to using my expertise to promote economic advancement and inform decision-making. Both roles are crucial steppingstones towards my ambition of becoming a leading economic consultant, shaping economic trends and policies. My focus now is to gain experience and knowledge in these foundational roles, building towards my long-term vision of impactful economic leadership.

